---

layout: post
date: 2016-01-21 15:40
categories: article
tags: star wars yoda evil 
image: /assets/article_images/yoda.jpg
published: true
title: "Yoda Is Dead but Star Wars’ Dubious Lessons Live On"

---

This interview with science fiction writer David Brin about Star Wars is incredibly enlightening. I have not given much thought to the plot (and plot holes) of Star Wars in general. Partly because I don't care to intellectualise the movies beyond what they are and partly because of how bad the prequel movies were it was worth not reliving. What I particularly enjoyed in this article was the deconstruction of Yoda, not as some kind of zen master but as evil overlord. 

>Yoda, in Attack of the Clones, orders the Jedi into a suicide charge that kills most of them, then conveniently shows up with the new clone army that he ordered. An act of treachery and betrayal so stunning that I had to watch the movie twice.

I always had an issue with the jump Anakin made from being slightly disconcerted with the Jedi hierachy to killing a room full of kids but Yoda's got nothing on that.

 And on Yoda's contiuning screw ups:

>Mace Windu, on the other hand, is the only intelligent Jedi depicted in any film. He found evidence of Senator Palpatine’s plot. Mace wanted to tell the Republic—Yoda overruled him. When all the other Jedi are falling into a stupid trap ordered by Yoda, Mace is the one who does his job as a secret agent, sneaks up to the balcony, and puts a light saber to the bad guy’s throat. If one Jedi more had accompanied him, it would’ve been over. Mace, in confronting Palpatine, was the only one who tries to do what the Jedi are supposed to do, but he fails because Yoda screwed up the training of the dangerous apprentice, Anakin, and orders the Jedi to do a frontal assault into an arena filled with a hundred thousand laser wielding enemies.



Source: [Yoda Is Dead but Star Wars’ Dubious Lessons Live On](http://nautil.us/blog/yoda-is-dead-but-star-wars-dubious-lessons-live-on)
 
Image: [Yoda Meditating](http://www.blastr.com/2013-4-24/little-known-sci-fi-fact-know-yodas-original-first-name-we-do)
